= script.duck syntax =

== Introduction ==

The script.duck file is the core of your visual novel. You only have to modify it and put your ressources into the right folders, and let's go!

=== Initialization ===

The first thing you have to put to initialize the following parameters.
{{{
>init
}}}


The size of the window of the visual novel. If you leave it blank, you will have a 1000*750 pixel window.
{{{
WINDOW_SIZE = "1000, 750"
}}}


The title of your window. Set it up, if not you will have a generic title...
{{{
WINDOW_TITLE = "My Visual Novel"
}}}


If you want something else than the superb duck-engine's duck.
{{{
WINDOW_ICON = ""
}}}


The font that will be used by your visual novel.
{{{
FONT = "/fonts/your_font.ttf"
}}}


The size of your font. Because yes, it is important...
{{{
FONT_SIZE = "42"
}}}


The background of the title window. Interesting, because if you don't set it up, it won't work.
{{{
BACKGROUND_TITLE = "graph/title.png"
}}}


And finally, the music of the title window. You can obviously leave it blank.
{{{
MUSIC_TITLE = "music/narcissu-theme.mp3"
}}}

=== Setting up caracters ===

You have to add _all_ the characters that you will use during the visual novel. You can as much as you want. They will be saved in memory, and later you can use them.
{{{
>characters
}}}


Use this exact syntax to add a character.
{{{
>>HAPPY_MAN = "graph/perso/happy_man.png"
}}}

=== Finally, the scene! ===

Now, you can finally script your scene. Don't forget to use this tag!
{{{
>scene
}}}


As for the title window, don't forget to set a background, if there is none, duck-engine will produce an error.
{{{
background = "graph/scene.jpg"
}}}


Music of the scene. You can leave it blank as well as the music title.
{{{
music = "music/narcissu-15cm.mp3"
}}}


_Note: obviously you can use "background" and "music" as much as you want, if there was music and background before they will be replaced._


This function will wait for the player to press the enter button. That way, everything is not showed at once.
{{{
>>w
}}}


Use "show" ONLY with caracters you have defined before. The numbers correspond to the X and Y position of the caracter.
{{{
show HAPPY_MAN "400, 400"
}}}


And if you want to delete the caracter from the screen, simply use this function:
{{{
unshow HAPPY_MAN
}}}


This text will be show at screen.
{{{
<Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit./>
}}}


If you want to show an image at screen, just use this. You specify the path and the position of the image.
{{{
image "graph/path.png" "0, 0"
}}}


Finally, to tell duck-engine that your visual novel is finished!
{{{
>end
}}}
